Stark Industries , later also known as Stark International , Stark Innovations , Stark Enterprises and Stark Resilient , is a multi-national conglomerate appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics . Created by Frans Robert Bernstein , Stan Lee , and Jack Kirby , the company first appeared in Tales of Suspense #39 (December 1962). Stark Industries is depicted as being owned and run by businessman and namesake Tony Stark, who is also known as Iron Man , and was founded by Tony's father, Howard Stark , from whom he inherited the company. In the Marvel Cinematic Universe , Stark Industries has a logo modeled after the defense contractor Lockheed Martin and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange as SIA. During the press conference scene, Stark is seen entering a building that resembles the entrance to Lockheed Martin's Skunk Works facility. An airplane similar to the Lockheed YF-22 stood as a statue in front of the Stark Industries facility, much like the prototypes on display at the Skunk Works facility in Palmdale, California. Stark Industries first appeared in Tales of Suspense #40 (April 1963), created by Robert Bernstein , Stan Lee , and Jack Kirby . The company was first identified by name in issue #48. Stark Industries was founded in 1939 by Howard Stark , and then headed by his son Tony after Howard's death. Over the years, through bankruptcy, Tony's "death", Tony's return and hostile takeovers, the company has gone through many name changes including Stark International (later Stane International ), Stark Enterprises , Stark/Fujikawa and Stark Solutions . Stark Industries is primarily a technology and defense company. It manufactures the armor worn by Iron Man and War Machine, builds the Helicarriers used by S.H.I.E.L.D, and produces the Quinjets used by the Avengers. Originally Stark Industries , the name was changed when the company ceased manufacturing munitions, with Tony handing over the CEO position to Pepper Potts. The company was taken over by Obadiah Stane after a hostile takeover and renamed it Stane International. After driving Tony Stark back to alcoholism, Obadiah Stane wrested control of Stark International from James Rhodes after a hostile takeover and renamed the company after himself. Stane renewed the munitions manufacturing. However, after Stane was killed, the company was run by a mysterious cartel which was eventually bought out and reabsorbed by Stark Enterprises. After regaining his personal fortune following Obadiah Stane's death, Tony established a new company, Stark Enterprises, in Los Angeles. Created by a merger of Stark Enterprises and Fujikawa Industries following the apparent death of Iron Man/Anthony Stark. The fifth company was run/owned by Tony Stark and was founded after his return from another dimension. It was shut down by Tony after he was defamed by Tiberius Stone who was subliminally influencing him. The sixth company owned/run by/founded by Tony Stark and was set up after the closure of Stark Solutions. After the events of "The Five Nightmares" and "World Most Wanted" story arcs, Stark Industries went bankrupt and eventually closed down. It was also known as Stark International , both names formerly used in previous incarnations of the company. Its logo being the same as the S.I. Logo in the Iron Man film series. In the world of Amalgam Comics , the company is known as Stark Aircraft (itself a merger between Stark Industries and Ferris Aircraft ). The only known employees are Janice Doremus, Pepper Ferris, Happy Kalmaku, Stewart Rhodes, Hal Stark. In Marvel 2099 (an alternate future reality set in the year 2099), Stark-Fujikawa is a major corporate power, alongside Alchemax and Roxxon . The only known staff members are Hikaru-Sama and Shudo. During the " Secret Wars " storyline, a version of Stark-Fujikawa is seen in the Battleworld domain of 2099. In the alternate future reality of MC2 , the company is known as Stark Global Industries and is owned and run by Tony Stark. Stark Industries also appears in the Ultimate universe , as it keeps mostly the same origin as spawned out of Howard Stark's defense company. As well as Stark International in the Ultimate Comics as a competitor to Mandarin International . Stark Global Solutions Headquarters also appears as a separate company operated in Singapore owned by Tony Stark's older brother Gregory. In Earth-6160 , a world preceded by alternate history due to the interference of the Maker , the company is known as Stark/Stane , jointly led by business partners Howard Stark and Obadiah Stane. It is one of the main corporations of the technocratic North American Union, a regional power bloc which includes the former United States' territories after its central government dissolved in 1969. It was regarded as essentially running the Union since the private sector superseded the old political order. After Stane is killed in Latveria and Stark disappears into the city, the Maker's Council takes advantage of the resulting power vacuum and frames Tony Stark as a terrorist due to his opposition to the group, using a Stark/Stane satellite to conduct a false flag attack on Stark Tower, causing thousands of casualties in the Manhattan area. After Wilson Fisk is appointed as Shadow Governor of the New York territory, he asks Oscorp 's new CEO, Harry Osborn , to help take care of the company's assets, as they became a matter of political intrigue in the Union. Weeks later, Osborn creates the Green Goblin armor using Stark technology, with the help of Otto Octavius . Some Stark assets end up in the hands of wealthy buyers, with the billionaire Midas taking Howard Stark's first Iron Man armor. In a What If story, the company is known as Stark Interplanetary and was the creators of the Irondroids