The Marvel Comics character Iron Man has appeared in various other media since his debut in Tales of Suspense #39 (March 1963). Iron Man has been the focus of three animated series, two Japanese animated projects , and a direct-to-DVD animated feature. An Iron Man live-action feature film starring Robert Downey Jr. as the character and directed by Jon Favreau was released in 2008, with Downey also appearing as the character in the two sequels Iron Man 2 and 3 , in a cameo in The Incredible Hulk , and as a main character in several other films in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) including The Avengers , Avengers: Age of Ultron , Captain America: Civil War , Spider-Man: Homecoming , Avengers: Infinity War , and Avengers: Endgame . Iron Man appears as one of the main protagonists in The Marvel Super Heroes , voiced by John Vernon . Robert Downey Jr. portrays Tony Stark in Iron Man (2008), Iron Man 2 (2010), The Avengers (2012), Iron Man 3 (2013), Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), Captain America: Civil War (2016), Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017), Avengers: Infinity War (2018), and Avengers: Endgame (2019), as well as having a cameo in The Incredible Hulk (2008) that is also shown via archive footage in the Marvel One-Shot , The Consultant (2011). Davin Ransom portrayed a young Tony Stark in Iron Man 2 . Iron Man is featured in several video games . The Iron Man armor is prominently featured in the book Inventing Iron Man: The Possibility of a Human Machine by E. Paul Zehr , which explores the hard science fiction aspects of Iron Man and the possibility of building an Iron Man-like armor. Iron Man has appeared in the following novels: Iron Man appears in the Marvel Universe Live! stage show. In 1989, while the third TV-film sequel to The Incredible Hulk live-action television series was expected to co-star She-Hulk , Iron Man was being considered for both a follow-up or a solo film of his own. One year later, a film from Universal Studios to be directed by Stuart Gordon was being negotiated. This was still on the table ten months later, and also another two years on, this time with no specific director or studio attached. On October 8, 2013, Walt Disney Parks and Resorts chairman Thomas O. Staggs announced that Hong Kong Disneyland would be adding the Iron Man Experience , becoming the first Disney attraction to be based on a Marvel property. Set at Stark Expo, the attraction features Tony Stark recruiting guests to fend off aliens attacking Hong Kong .