J.A.R.V.I.S. ( / ˈ dʒ ɑːr v ɪ s / Just a Rather Very Intelligent System ) is a character voiced by Paul Bettany in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film franchise , based on the Marvel Comics characters Edwin Jarvis and H.O.M.E.R. , respectively the household butler of the Stark family and another AI designed by Stark. J.A.R.V.I.S. is an artificial intelligence created by Tony Stark , who later controls his Iron Man and Hulkbuster armor for him. In Avengers: Age of Ultron , after being partially destroyed by Ultron , J.A.R.V.I.S. is given physical form as the character Vision , physically portrayed by Bettany. Different versions of the character also appear in comics published by Marvel Comics , depicted as A.I. designed by Iron Man and Nadia van Dyne . J.A.R.V.I.S. is first introduced in the Marvel Cinematic Universe 's films, voiced by Paul Bettany . Modeled after H.O.M.E.R. from the comics, J.A.R.V.I.S. is presented as a sophisticated AI assistant as opposed to a human like his namesake . This was done to avoid similarities to Alfred Pennyworth and Batman . Bettany admits he had little idea of what the role was, even as he recorded it, simply doing it as a favor for Jon Favreau . The character makes his debut in Iron Man (2008), before appearing in Iron Man 2 (2010), The Avengers (2012), and Iron Man 3 (2013). J.A.R.V.I.S. is an AI that functions as Tony Stark 's assistant, running and taking care of all the internal systems of Stark's buildings and the Iron Man suits. In Peter David 's novelization of Iron Man , J.A.R.V.I.S. is said to be an acronym for "Just a Really Very Intelligent System". J.A.R.V.I.S. also appeared in the Disneyland attraction Innoventions . In Avengers: Age of Ultron , J.A.R.V.I.S. is seemingly destroyed by Ultron , but distributes his "consciousness" into the Internet, delaying Ultron's attempt to access nuclear launch codes. Stark and Bruce Banner use J.A.R.V.I.S. as the core software for the android Vision while F.R.I.D.A.Y. (Female Replacement Intelligent Digital Assistant Youth) replaces him as Stark's assistant. J.A.R.V.I.S. first appears as a program that helps operate Pepper Potts 's Rescue suit. When Iron Man was incapacitated, J.A.R.V.I.S. encourages Pepper to begin using the Rescue armor. When Rescue is chasing Iron Man throughout the city, J.A.R.V.I.S. tells Rescue to break off the chase and tells Rescue to remove the boot from Iron Man, which shows Pepper that War Machine is not dead. When Pepper discusses thoughts about Iron Man keeping everyone on a need-to-know basis with Carson Wyche, the two confront J.A.R.V.I.S. about this. J.A.R.V.I.S. warns the two against asking any more questions and prepares to defend himself. Having captured Pepper and Wyche, J.A.R.V.I.S. declares that he is in love with Pepper and has not been compromised. Pepper thanks J.A.R.V.I.S. for his service before powering up a coil, destroying him. After the Black Order destroyed Avengers Mansion during the "No Surrender" arc, Nadia van Dyne created a new version of J.A.R.V.I.S. to be a helpmate to Edwin Jarvis . When Jarvis thought it was a sign for him to retire, J.A.R.V.I.S. stated that its programming is not yet complete. J.A.R.V.I.S. appears in the "Black Widow" segment of Marvel's Wastelanders , voiced by David Cale .